README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://openresource.dev/">
    <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17381666/230775291-2f900d5a-5d3b-4f30-86c3-f2dd7714602c.svg" alt="Open {re}Source logo" height="60">
  </a>
</p>

<h1 align="center">openresource.dev</h1>

<p align="center">
  <b>Open {re}Source is your platform for sharing and discovering the Open Source world.</b>
  <br>
  Understand how it works, and learn how to create, manage, and contribute to Open Source projects.
  <br>
  Join the Open Source community today and start making a difference.
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://openresource.dev">Open {re}Source website</a>
  ·
  <a href="https://discord.gg/fpUDwEMGwE">Discord</a>
</p>

## What’s in This Repository

"openresource.dev" is the repository containing the code source deployed to https://openresource.dev.

## Status

[![Contributor Covenant](https://img.shields.io/badge/Contributor%20Covenant-2.1-4baaaa.svg)](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)

## Quick Start

All commands are run from the root of the project, from a terminal:

| Command                | Action                                           |
| :--------------------- | :----------------------------------------------- |
| `npm install`          | Installs dependencies                            |
| `npm run dev`          | Run the development server                       |
| `npm run vercel`       | Run in the same conditions as Vercel             |

## Bugs and Feature Requests

Have a bug or a feature request? Please first search for existing and closed issues. If your problem or idea is not addressed yet, [please open a new issue](https://github.com/Open-reSource/openresource.dev/issues/new/choose).

## Contributing

Please read through our [contributing guidelines](https://github.com/Open-reSource/openresource.dev/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Community

Get update on Open {re}Source's development and chat with the project maintainers an community members:

- Follow [@open_resource on Twitter](https://twitter.com/open_resource).
- Follow [@openresource on Mastodon](https://fosstodon.org/@openresource).
- Explore [our GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/orgs/Open-reSource/discussions).
- Chat with the community and the maintainers on [our Discord channel](https://discord.com/invite/fpUDwEMGwE).
- Use [our RSS feed](https://www.openresource.dev/rss.xml) to know when articles are out!

## Copyright and License

Code released under the [MIT License](https://github.com/Open-reSource/openresource.dev/blob/main/LICENSE).

Content (including images) released under [CC BY 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/):
* `public/images/` directory
* `src/content/articles` and `src/content/modules` directories

Commit message:

chore: update `README.md`
Add `npm run update:showcase` command

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://openresource.dev/">
    <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17381666/230775291-2f900d5a-5d3b-4f30-86c3-f2dd7714602c.svg" alt="Open {re}Source logo" height="60">
  </a>
</p>

<h1 align="center">openresource.dev</h1>

<p align="center">
  <b>Open {re}Source is your platform for sharing and discovering the Open Source world.</b>
  <br>
  Understand how it works, and learn how to create, manage, and contribute to Open Source projects.
  <br>
  Join the Open Source community today and start making a difference.
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://openresource.dev">Open {re}Source website</a>
  ·
  <a href="https://discord.gg/fpUDwEMGwE">Discord</a>
</p>

## What’s in This Repository

"openresource.dev" is the repository containing the code source deployed to https://openresource.dev.

## Status

[![Contributor Covenant](https://img.shields.io/badge/Contributor%20Covenant-2.1-4baaaa.svg)](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)

## Quick Start

All commands are run from the root of the project, from a terminal:

| Command                   | Action                                           |
| :------------------------ | :----------------------------------------------- |
| `npm install`             | Installs dependencies                            |
| `npm run dev`             | Run the development server                       |
| `npm run vercel`          | Run in the same conditions as Vercel             |
| `npm run update:showcase` | Run the showcase script to gather links from https://github.com/orgs/Open-reSource/discussions/3 |

## Bugs and Feature Requests

Have a bug or a feature request? Please first search for existing and closed issues. If your problem or idea is not addressed yet, [please open a new issue](https://github.com/Open-reSource/openresource.dev/issues/new/choose).

## Contributing

Please read through our [contributing guidelines](https://github.com/Open-reSource/openresource.dev/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Community

Get update on Open {re}Source's development and chat with the project maintainers an community members:

- Follow [@open_resource on Twitter](https://twitter.com/open_resource).
- Follow [@openresource on Mastodon](https://fosstodon.org/@openresource).
- Explore [our GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/orgs/Open-reSource/discussions).
- Chat with the community and the maintainers on [our Discord channel](https://discord.com/invite/fpUDwEMGwE).
- Use [our RSS feed](https://www.openresource.dev/rss.xml) to know when articles are out!

## Copyright and License

Code released under the [MIT License](https://github.com/Open-reSource/openresource.dev/blob/main/LICENSE).

Content (including images) released under [CC BY 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/):
* `public/images/` directory
* `src/content/articles` and `src/content/modules` directories
