src/content/modules/getting-started-with-open-source/finding-open-source-projects.mdx, before:

---
id: 1
title: 'Finding Open Source Projects'
metaDescription: 'Find the perfect Open Source project to learn new skills and collaborate with developers. Explore ways to find projects aligned with your interests. Start today!'
creationDate: '2023-04-06'
lastUpdateDate: '2023-04-08'
---
<p class="lead">Open Source projects are a great way to learn new skills, collaborate with other developers, and contribute to the larger tech community. However, finding the right project can be overwhelming. In this chapter, we'll explore some ways to find Open Source projects that align with your interests and expertise.</p>

## How to Find Open Source Projects That Interest You

The first step in finding an Open Source project is to identify your interests and skills. Consider the programming languages, frameworks, or tools that you're most comfortable with and passionate about. This will help you narrow down your search and find projects that align with your expertise.

Another approach is to think about the types of problems or projects that interest you. For example, if you're interested in machine learning, you can search for Open Source projects related to that field. You can also explore different Open Source platforms and communities to find projects that align with your interests.

## Where to Look for Open Source Projects

There are many Open Source platforms and communities where you can find projects to contribute to. Some of the most popular platforms include <a href="https://github.com/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">GitHub</a>, <a href="https://gitlab.com" target="_blank" rel="noopener">GitLab</a> and <a href="https://sourceforge.net/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">SourceForge</a>. These platforms have a large collection of Open Source projects covering various programming languages, tools, and domains.

<a href="https://github.com/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">GitHub</a> is the most popular platform for hosting Open Source projects, with millions of projects available. You can explore projects by searching for keywords or browsing different categories. <a href="https://gitlab.com" target="_blank" rel="noopener">GitLab</a> is another popular platform, which offers a similar set of features as GitHub. <a href="https://sourceforge.net/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">SourceForge</a> is a platform that has been around for a long time and hosts a wide range of Open Source projects.

## How to Evaluate the Quality and Popularity of a Project

When evaluating an Open Source project, you should consider several factors, including the project's popularity, activity level, and quality. The popularity of a project can be measured by the number of stars, forks, and contributors it has. You can also look at the number of downloads, issues, and pull requests to get an idea of the project's popularity and activity level.

The quality of an Open Source project can be assessed by looking at the codebase, documentation, and community support. A well-maintained project will have clear documentation, an active community, and a high-quality codebase. You can also look at the project's roadmap and development history to gauge its potential and longevity.

Finding the right Open Source project can be a challenging task, but it's worth the effort. By exploring different platforms, communities, and projects, you can find opportunities to learn new skills, collaborate with other developers, and contribute to the larger tech community.

## Sometimes, You Don’t Need to Look That Far

Sometimes, you don't need to look far to find an Open Source project to contribute to. If you use a particular tool or software regularly and notice areas that could be improved or features that could be added, consider contributing to that project. As a user, you have a unique perspective and understanding of the software, which can be valuable to the project's development.

Additionally, contributing to a project that you already use regularly can be a great way to learn new skills and gain experience in a familiar environment. So don't be afraid to look at the tools and software you already use and consider contributing to their development.

Commit message:

feat(content): split contributing module in two modules

src/content/modules/getting-started-with-open-source/finding-open-source-projects.mdx, after:

---
id: 2
title: 'Finding Open Source Projects'
metaDescription: 'Easily find Open Source projects on platforms like GitHub and GitLab. Explore curated lists and directories to discover exciting projects.'
creationDate: '2023-04-06'
lastUpdateDate: '2023-04-08'
---
<p class="lead">One of the easiest ways to discover Open Source projects is by exploring various directories and lists available on the internet.</p>

These platforms provide curated collections of Open Source projects, making it convenient for users to find projects based on different criteria. Some popular Open Source directories and lists include:

## GitHub Explore

[GitHub Explore](https://github.com/explore) is an excellent resource to find popular and trending Open Source projects across various domains. You can browse through categories, such as web development, machine learning, or data science, to discover exciting projects.

## GitLab Explore

[GitLab Explore](https://about.gitlab.com/topics/explore/) offers a similar functionality to GitHub Explore and allows you to explore a vast array of Open Source projects hosted on the GitLab platform.

## Awesome Lists

Awesome Lists are community-curated lists of Open Source projects categorized by topic. These lists cover a wide range of domains, from programming languages to frameworks, libraries, and tools. You can find these lists on platforms like GitHub, Bitbucket, or GitLab by searching for "awesome" followed by your area of interest (e.g., "awesome python" or "awesome data science").

## Open Hub

[Open Hub](https://www.openhub.net/) (formerly known as Ohloh) provides a comprehensive directory of Open Source projects with detailed metrics, such as codebase size, contributors, and project activity. It offers a powerful search functionality to find projects based on various criteria.
