src/content/modules/getting-started-with-open-source/index.mdx, before:

---
id: 2
title: 'Getting Started With Open Source'
description: 'Start contributing to Open Source projects today! Learn the basics of finding the right project and following community guidelines to make a meaningful impact in the Open Source community.'
metaDescription: 'Begin your Open Source contribution today! Discover benefits and learn to find the right project, follow guidelines, and make an impact. Start now!'
---
<p class="lead">Discover the benefits of contributing to Open Source projects and learn how to get started today. This module will equip you with the essential knowledge to find the right project, follow community guidelines, and make a meaningful impact in the Open Source community.</p>
        
Getting started with Open Source can be overwhelming, but it offers a unique opportunity for developers to work on real-world projects, learn from experienced developers, and contribute to a larger community. This module aims to provide you with a roadmap to start contributing to Open Source projects and guide you through the process of building a portfolio of contributions that showcases your skills. You will learn how to find Open Source projects, contribute to them, work with Open Source tools, get involved in the Open Source community, and overcome challenges in Open Source contributions.

Whether you're a seasoned developer or just starting out, contributing to Open Source projects can be a rewarding experience. Start your journey today and make a difference in the world of technology!

Commit message:

feat(content): split contributing module in two modules (#100)
- "Getting Started With Open Source" will only talk about what is the platform where are stored OSS projects, how to find projects to use, etc.
  - New content: "Source Code Hosting Platforms"
  - New content: "Finding Open Source Projects"
- Previous content will be in "Contributing to Open Source Projects"

src/content/modules/getting-started-with-open-source/index.mdx, after:

---
id: 2
title: 'Getting Started With Open Source'
description: 'Discover the fundamentals of Open Source and unlock its benefits! Explore the vibrant world of collaborative projects and find your perfect fit.'
metaDescription: 'Discover the fundamentals of Open Source and unlock its benefits! Explore the vibrant world of collaborative projects and find your perfect fit.'
---
<p class="lead">Now that we know what we are talking about, let’s dive into the world of Open Source!</p>
        
In this chapter, we will explore the fundamentals of Open Source and how you can leverage it to your advantage. Open Source software provides you with the freedom to use, modify, and distribute software without any restrictions. The Open Source community is a vibrant and collaborative ecosystem where developers from around the world come together to create amazing projects. Whether you are a software developer, a student, or an enthusiast, this chapter will guide you on how to get started with Open Source and find projects that align with your interests and needs.
